---
layout: post
title: Teaching Philosophy Statement
excerpt: Where I describe my philosophy about teaching and learning.
modified: 05/02/2018, 9:00:24
tags: [teaching, philosophy, statement]
comments: true
category: teaching
---

One of the most meaningful learning experiences in my life comes from my first French teacher. First day of classes for absolute beginners and here she comes through the door, holding a huge pack of documents in her arms. Instead of posing them on the desk though, she stands in front of us, says something in French and then walks out the door again, leaving behind her a nebula of question marks. Our puzzlement only started to dissipate when we turned to each other in an attempt to figure out what to do. Has she just canceled class? Was she not our teacher? Or maybe she has just asked us to follow her in another classroom? Indeed, there she was in another classroom, smiling and inviting us to take a seat. All in French.

She had set the tone: Learning starts with puzzlement, full immersion naturally forces collaboration, and understanding rarely comes from linguistic cues only but putting together pieces taken from a larger context. Attending her class for a year was a thrill. In the first few days, I was able to greet and introduce myself in French. A year later, I was able to fill out University applications and pass preliminary examinations. There was no way for me to anticipate how an immersive language class would change my life. In short, I also wanted to be a teacher!

On my first appointment as a lecturer of French at the University of California in Santa Barbara, my question was: how can I be the French language teacher who changed my life? Throughout the years however, with more experience gained, I had a new set of questions to ponder: How could I foster an optimal learning experience both inside and outside of the classroom? How could I act as a collaborator and a partner in my students’ learning process and not as an imposing authoritative figure, pointing out wrong or right answers? How could I be supportive both in the classroom and in one-on-one mentoring during office hours? Most importantly, how could I teach my students to love the process of learning beyond my subject matter: French language and culture?

The quest for knowledge is rooted in us. So is the language by which we ask questions and therefore proceed on our quest. In language learning however, the object we are seeking and the means by which we are seeking it, overlap –language becomes auto-referential, and reflective by default.

If learning starts with aporia, an obstructed place by all that remains opaque, then clearing the view helps advance meaning making. Changing one’s own perspective or liberating the mind from one’s own assumptions and presuppositions is a crucial step in the learning process. Again, this important training in skepticism over dogmatism, is offered in a language learning class and it is activated through paraphrase. Paraphrasing pushes for an important internal negotiation, a rehashing and rearranging of old materials to form new meanings.

Skeptic renaissance French writer Montaigne, famously compressed both the desire for knowledge and the method of acquiring it, in one simple question: “Que sais-je ?” (“What do I know?”). Adopting the humble position of not knowing allows the learner to move forward, under the guidance and supervision of the teacher. Moreover, by coming back to the same question frequently, reflecting on the distance traveled, and contemplating the road ahead, progress is made and the learner is rewarded with the empowerment to take the journey on their own.

Reinforcing Montaigne’s “Que sais-je” technique is built-in with e-portfolios, which I strongly advocate for as a learning tool. As part of a team of dedicated teachers and e-portfolio enthusiasts at UVa, we have identified reflection as e-portfolios’ major virtue. Combining it with the particularities of language learning, e-portfolios hit a neuralgic spot. They become students’ companions to explore both another culture and their own learning strategies. Students in French quickly realize their limits. The “language barrier” is visible –only a few words and expressions away from them. My challenge as a teacher is to avoid giving them easy passes to the other side by answering their most frequent question: “Comment dit-on… ?” (“How do we say…?”). My goal is to sustain their interest in conquering new ground independently. For that reason, I ask them to paraphrase and reflect.

Beyond any linguistic competencies required to successfully complete the class, the abilities to paraphrase and reflect are the two skills I want my students to take away from my class. Here lays the beauty of learning a new language. For not only does it trigger the mind to think anew, but also to think on how it does so. Learning a new language is an opportunity for self-discovery and self-realization and I stand in front of my students as a living example of that.
