---
layout: post
title: FREN 1050 Spring 2019 About
excerpt: About
date: 2019-01-07 21:02:30 
modified: 2019-02-25 19:04:36
tags: teaching, lesson planning, FREN 1050, accelerated French 
comments: true
category: teaching
---

### Office Hours 

Mon & Wed: 2:30 - 3:00pm  
Fri 2:30 - 3:30pm 


### What will you do in FREN 1050?

- In this accelerated course, you will listen, speak, read, and write French to develop these skills at the elementary level, moving from the novice to the low intermediate level of proficiency in French while also developing your understanding of the Francophone world. Use of authentic texts (video, audio, and print), including literary and cultural readings, short films, television, music, and Internet media, provide the basis for development of linguistic skills, communicative competence, and cultural awareness. 

- Your activities in this class will focus on communication in meaningful contexts. You will study and practice grammatical forms and vocabulary outside of class; time in class will be devoted primarily to interactive communication in real-world contexts around a diverse selection of authentic sources and themes of current interest. Class is conducted entirely in French to give you as much immersion in the language as possible.

### What will you learn by studying French?

- In French 1050 through 2020, you will develop your ability to communicate in French—orally and in writing, individually and collaboratively—about a diverse set of topics relevant to your world. Communication in a foreign language involves many interconnected skills: understanding what you are reading or hearing, interpreting the meaning of those words within specific social, cultural, historical, and aesthetic contexts, and then formulating and expressing thoughts that respond to all of this. 

- Your language learning allows you to begin to engage in intentional cross-cultural relationships with others. Building cross-cultural and cross-linguistic connections through language study will develop your ability to pose and solve problems collaboratively as well as to design and share information for global communities. 

- After completing the intermediate level, you are prepared to begin advanced coursework for the French major or minor, and you are ready to travel, study, and engage in internships abroad in order to deepen your command of the French language and understanding of the cultures of the French-speaking world.  

### What do you need to do in order to succeed in this class? 

Success comes in all sorts of different shapes and forms. It is important to dedicate your initial reflection on you e-portfolio defining what success would mean to you in this class. 

Below are a few general recommandations: 

- **Be engaged**: In and out of class, with your classmates and instructor and with the resources available to you on Grounds and online. Language learning doesn’t happen in a vacuum. It’s a communicative, community endeavor.

- **Be present**: Comme to class and be focused.

- **Pay attention to detail**: Language learning involves daily effort, frequent small assignments (individual and collaborative) and activities that build on one another. It’s a lot to keep track of, but staying organized will contribute tremendously to your progress. [Here is a tracker](https://goo.gl/forms/VidwTPN9wsXC095U2) I designed to help you keep track of your daily learning routine. Over the course of the semester your personal statistics will help you visualize and reflect on your progress. 

- **Be calm**: You’ll make the most progress when not worried about sounding silly or about not understanding every word. Nobody can acquire proficiency in another language without making (and learning from) lots of mistakes!


### E-portfolio

- [FLLeP - Foreign Language Learning e-Portfolio Guidelines](http://simp.ly/publish/LhgQmV) 

- [E-portfolio Activities & Reflection Prompts](http://simp.ly/publish/LtZD0m)

- [E-portfolio Items](https://app.simplenote.com/publish/BG7GwV) 

- [Cultural Project](https://app.simplenote.com/publish/Y4C1XJ)

- [Composition 1](https://app.simplenote.com/publish/nvwBpC) 

- [Composition 2](https://app.simplenote.com/publish/PC7326)

- [Composition 3](https://app.simplenote.com/publish/NYhtRn) 

- [Code de correction des compositions](https://app.simplenote.com/publish/95gYWN)  


### Oral Exams

- [Oral Exams](https://app.simplenote.com/publish/Jjrnn3)  

### A few recommendations about e-mails: 

- Before you send an email make sure the information you are requesting is not already available to you (i.e. Syllabus, Collab announcements, etc).  
- Often times students have similar questions and concerns. Coordinate with your classmates and ask these questions in class for the benefit of the group.
- Face-to-face communication after class, or a visit during office hours, immensely decrease the amount of time and energy spent on emails, on both ends. 
- An email is not instant communication. No matter how urgent it is for you, a response might require a considerable time lag. Be mindful of what you are asking and when. If it can wait, keep it for the class.   


### Lesson planning 

Students here is your [one-stop shop](https://ss4ws.github.io/blog/2018/FREN-1050-SPRING-19/#/) for everything related to the class and our meetings. Click the link to go to the designated page, or quick flip through the slides below. 

<iframe src="https://ss4ws.github.io/blog/2018/FREN-1050-SPRING-19/#/" style="border-width:0" width="100%" height="600" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>


### Calendar 

<iframe src="https://calendar.google.com/calendar/b/1/embed?showDate=0&amp;showPrint=0&amp;showTabs=0&amp;showTz=0&amp;mode=WEEK&amp;height=600&amp;wkst=1&amp;bgcolor=%23ffffff&amp;src=virginia.edu_vcrdic4c2spgi4307h54b6hdho%40group.calendar.google.com&amp;color=%23865A5A&amp;ctz=America%2FNew_York" style="border-width:0" width="100%" height="600" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>

